DocumentationMaking a new icon:Creating a new icon is simply a matter of selecting the New Icon command from the File menu. A new editor window will be created (assuming there is enough memory) and you can now proceed to edit as usual.Opening an icon:To open an icon select the Open Icon command from the File menu. A file choice dialog will appear. You can select any file, but only those which contain custom icon resources will be able to be opened. If you wish to edit the icon of a folder, first select the desired folder in the dialog, then open it and look for a file called "Icon" inside it. That is where the custom icon for a folder is stored.Once you have opened a file, if it contains more than one icon the Icon Browser will be shown. This window allows you to choose which icon resource you wish to edit. Once you have found the proper one from the list, click Open and that icon will be opened in a new editor. If the file contains only one icon resource, then the Icon Browser is redundant, and thus the single icon will be opened automatically.Saving:Saving in this application is much like in any other. There is a Save command, which will save the currently opened file in its original location (if any). The Save As command allows you to save a copy in a new location (this command will be called by default if a new icon has been created and a location for it has not been chosen yet)Quitting:To quit this application, simply select the Quit command. If any editors are left open, they will be closed automatically. If they have unsaved changes, then you will be prompted to either cancel the quit process, save them, or discard the changes.The tools:PENCILShortcut key: NModifiers: Holding down option transforms the pencil tool into the eye dropper tool temporarely.Description: The pencil tool operaates while the mouse button is held down over the drawing area. It leaves a trail of pixels (set to the foreground color) on the locations over which the mouse has passed.EYEDROPPERShortcut key: IModifiers: Holding down option make the color be picked up into the background color slot.Description: The eyedropper tool is used to sample the colors already in the drawing. My moving the cursor over a pixel and clicking, the foreground color is set to the color of that pixel.PAINT BUCKETShortcut key: KModifiers: Holding down option transforms the paint bucket tool into the eye dropper tool temporarely.Description: The paint bucket tool is used to fill areas with the foreground color. The area that is to be filled is determined by the area which is continous (same color) to the starting point.ERASERShortcut key: EModifiers: Holding down option transforms the eraser tool into the eye dropper tool temporarely.Description: The eraser key acts just like the pencil tool, except that it sets the pixels to the background colors.LINEShortcut key: YModifiers: Holding down option transforms the line tool into the eye dropper tool temporarely. Holding down shift constrains the line to be drawn at 45 degree intervals.Description: The line tool draws a line connecting the initial point (the point where the mouse was first pressed) and the ending point (the place where the user let go of the mouse).RECTANGLEShortcut key: RModifiers: Holding down option before the mouse is clicked transforms the rectangle tool into the eye dropper tool temporarely. Holding down option after the mouse is drawn causes the initial point to be used as the center (instead of as the corner) of the rectangle. Holding down shift causes the drawing of the rectangle to be constrained to a 1:1 aspect (thus it is a square).Description: The rectangle tool draws a rectangle with one of the corners at the starting point (the place where the mouse was first pressed) and the ending point (the place where the user let go of the mouse), unless the option modifier is held down.RECTANGULAR MARQUEEShortcut key: MModifiers: Holding down shift before the mouse is clicked turns on additive mode. Then the newly created selection will be added on to any existing selection. Holding down option before the mouse is clicked turns on subtractive mode. Then the newly created selection will be subtracted from any existing selection. Holding down shift after the mouse is clicked will constrain the selection to a square. Holding down option after the mouse is clicked will cause the initial point to be used as the center of the rectangular selection. Description: The rectangular marquee tool acts similarly to the rectangle tool, except that it creates a (non-floated) selection instead of drawing a rectangle.MOVEShortcut key: VModifiers: Holding down option will cause a copy to be left behind at the original location of the selection. Holding down shift will cause the movement to be restricted to the vertical, horizontal and 45 degree diagonal axes.Description: The move tool is used to displace selections. It causes a selection to be floated (if it isn't already) and make it glide over the rest of the contents of the drawing. Also note that the selection can be moved around in one pixel incremenets (or 10 if the shift key is held down) by using the arrow keys.LASSOShortcut key: LModifiers: Holding down shift will turn on additive mode (see above for a description). Holding down option will turn on subtractive mode (again, see above for a description).Description: The lasso tool is used to draw a selection shape which then "tightens" around the contents. The tightening is done by looking at which pixels match the background color, and then by "going through" those pixels.MAGIC WANDShortcut key: WModifiers: Holding down shift will turn on additive mode (see above for a description). Holding down option will turn on subtractive mode (again, see above for a description).Description: The magic wand is used to select areas of the same color. When the user clicks on a pixel then all adjacent pixels which have the same color will be selected.The color swatch:The color swatch is used to select the foreground and background colors (this is done by clicking on the respective colors). The foregroud color is used by the drawing tools (such as the pencil and line tools). The background color is used when erasing (either by using the eraser tool or by deleting a selection). The swatch also includes two widgets, symbolized by two icons, one in the upper-right corner and the other in the lower-left corner. The former swaps the foregroud and background colors, and has a shortcut key of X. The latter resets the foreground and background colors to black and white respectively. Its shortcut key is D.Selections:A selection can be in two states. It can either be floated or not. When it is floated, it appears the glide above the rest of the drawing, and there is something behind it. When it isn't, it is part of the drawing itself, and if you attempt to move it, it will leave a hole behind (filled with the background color). When a selection is active, the drawing tools will be restricted to drawing within the selection.Certain operations can be applied to selections. There is a Select All command (the menu path is Edit:Select:All) which, as its name implies, selects the whole drawing. There is also a Select None command (under Edit:Select:None), which deselects the current selection (if any). Finally there is an Select Inverse command (under Edit:Select:Inverse) which inverts the current selection, thus what is selected will be deselected, and vice-versa.The Display:The display is the area within the editor on the right. It consists of an area for the currently selected icon, a pop-up menu for switching among the different icon depths, a similar set for the mask, as well as a preview for the merged icon and mask. The display is used for switching among the various size/depth combinations (by clicking on them, or by selecting different depths from the pop-up menu). It is also possible to drag among the different areas. For example if the user had drawn the large size, and wanted to interpolate the small size from that, he would just have to drag the large icon into the slot of the small icon, and the application will shrink it down. In addition, dragging from an icon slot to a mask slot will automatically create a mask for that icon. If the user wishes to clone the current depth into a different one (with dithering being applied of course) then it is possible to hold down option and select the new depth from the pop-up menu. The cursor will turn into the standard Mac OS copy cursor, and then the new selection is made, the depth will be copied over.Zoom In and Out:Changing the zoom level can be done in two ways. There are the Zoom In and Zoom Out commands in the View menu, and these increase or decrease the magnification level in increments of 100%. It is also possible to use the resize box in the lower right-hand corner. When the window is resized, the nearest whole-number zoom increment will be selected, and the drawing area will be enlarged accordingly.