32-bit Solar System Icon Set(For Anita)By Reby H.W. LeeAugust 1999Introduction:	 After the initial release of Solar System Icon Set in June 1997, the new icons are the revision of the original icons. The icons are based on the images taken by various Voyager missions, the Hubble Space Telescope, etc.  The set includes 44 icons of planets, their satellites, comets, the sun and asteriods. MacOS8.5 is required for viewing the icons. 		32 bit Solar System Icon Set is an "item-ware". Which means you owe me at least one of the following items if you use the icons. 1. a beautiful postcard of your home town or country (see contact for my address).2. a donation to your local charity.3. a breathtaking picture of your country (may be emailed to me,  jpeg format please).4. to recycle or reuse 5 items (e.g. bottles, cans, packing materials.)Content:SunMercuryVenusEarth 		MoonMars		Phobos,  is one of Mars' satellites		Deimos,  is the smaller and outermost of the two satellites. It is the smallest known moon in the solarsystem. 951 Gaspra,  orbits the Sun near the inner edge of the main asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. 243 Ida,  is a Koronis asteroid orbiting the Sun between Mars and Jupiter. 253 MathildeJupiter		Io,  Jupiter I,  is the innermost Galilean moon; slightly larger than Earth's Moon.		Europa,  Jupiter II		Ganymede,  Jupiter III		Callisto,  Jupiter VI		Thebe, Jupiter XIV    Amalthea, Jupiter V   Metis, Jupiter XVI Saturn 		Mimas,  Saturn I		Enceladus,  Saturn II				Tethys, Saturn III  		Dione, Saturn IV     Rhea, Saturn V     Titan,  Saturn VI 			Hyperion, Saturn VII 		Iapetus,Saturn VIII      Janus, Saturn X     Epimetheus.Saturn XI   Helene, Saturn XII     Atlas, Saturn XV    Prometheus, Saturn XVI    Pandora, Saturn XVIIUranus		Ariel, Uranus I    Umbriel.Uranus II    Oberon, Uranus IV		Umbriel, Uranus II		Titania, Uranus III     Puck, Uranus XVNeptune 	    Triton, Neptune I    Nereid, Neptune II   Larissa, Neptune VII   Proteus, Neptune VIII	Pluto 		Charon, is about the size of Pluto, is considered by some to be the Pluto's twin planet.Comets Halley, West and Hale-Bopp.Legality and Copyright:		The original images on which the icons are based are in the public domain.  I assume that they are not copyrighted. Please inform me if otherwise.  The design of the icons is copyrighted to me.  You may distribute this set freely on the following conditions 1. You keep the set intact, including this Read me file. 2. No alteration is made to the icons or this Read me.3. You must NOT charge, request fees, exchange for profits or compensation of any kind. 		These icons are intended for personal or educational use.  They CANNOT be used in any commercial software or application.Contact:Reby Lee - rebylee@hk.super.net, rhwlee@chat.carleton.caHomepage: http://www.hk.super.net/~rebyleeSnail mail address: Apt 906, 345 Laurier Ave East.Ottawa, ON.K1N 6R5, Canada.(please includes your email address for any future update.)To Use the Icons:1. click the icon of the set, and it should be highlighted.2. "Get Info" in File menu.  3. click the icon in the X info window. 4. "Copy" in Edit menu.5. click the icon of the document, folder, file or drive you want the icon on6. "Get Info". 7. click on the icon in the Y info window,8. "Paste". 9. close info windowsMore information on the solar system:http://seds.lpl.arizona.edu/nineplanets/nineplanets/nineplanets.htmlhttp://photojournal.jpl.nasa.gov/Notes:		I sincerely think for those who sent me postcards or pictures for my original Solar System Icon Set, especially Bill Arnett who is the creator of web site The Nine Plants from which I downloaded most of the images. 