Ê











Introduction

Iconographer is a an icon editor. It allows you to both change the icons of items, as well as edit the icon resources used by various programs. Iconographer has been created from the ground up to edit the new, Mac OS 8.5+, 32-bit icons with 8-bit masks. In addition, it allows you to work with icons from other platforms (at this moment, Windows .ico files and Mac OS X Server .tiff files).

Requirements

System 7.5.3 and above
Appearance Manager (built-in with Mac OS 8.0 and up)
A Power Macintosh

Usage

Iconographer attempts to follow all of the established Mac OS human interface guidelines. If previous you have used any graphics editor, you should be familiar with the manner in which Iconographer operates.

If you wish to obtain more details on how to operate Iconographer, a detailed on-line help is available. It can be accessed both through the Help menu within the application (refer to the instructions below on how to enable this feature), or simply by double-clicking on the Help alias within the application's folder.

Installing the On-line Help

Iconographer uses the new HTML-based help system that is provided by Apple with Mac OS 8.5 and above (note that you can still view the help with any browser by opening the Help file with it). In order to enable searching of the help, access from the Help menu and from the Help Center, the Iconographer Help folder must be placed inside the Help folder which resides inside your System Folder.

Shareware Info

Iconographer is shareware; it is NOT free. If you use Iconographer for more than a few icons you should pay the $15 registration fee.

Registrations for Iconographer are handled by the Kagi Shareware service run by Kee Nethery. In addition to cash in various currencies and US dollar checks drawn on US banks, Kagi Shareware also accepts credit card registrations by snail-mail or e-mail (your card number is scrambled). For organizations, they handle invoices and site licenses, too.

To register please use the enclosed Register application or register online at http://order.kagi.com/?QEJ. You will receive a registration code from Kagi, and when you enter that and your name in the registration dialog (available from the Apple menu) the reminder will be disabled.

Version History

1.0 August 26, 1999
- Initial release
