IconMacherVersion 1.4 - FREEWARE©1999 Purple E SoftwareCoded by Erick TejkowskiWeb:<http://www.norcom2000.com/users/ejt/purplee.html>E-mail:<ejt@norcom2000.com>NOW WITH 32 BIT ICON SUPPORT!Have you always wondered how to put pictures-made-of-icons on your own CD-ROM? Would you like to decorate your desktop with pictures of your friends? Does the thought of converting a picture into a few dozen icons give you a headache? Then, IconMacher is for you! IconMacher converts PICT files into finder icons that can be used to dress up any CD-ROM multimedia titles you make, to adorn your desktop decoration, or many other possibilities.USE1.) Run IconMacher2.) Select the menu "File:Open PICT"3.) Open a PICT file4.) On the window that appears with your picture in it, press the "Generate Icons" button.5.) You will be prompted to select a folder. This folder will be the destination folder for the icons.6.) The icons will be generated and put in your destination folder you selected above in Step 5.7.) When the icons are finished generating, press the "Generate Icon Script" button.8.) This will generate an Applescript that can be pasted into Apple's Script Editor. This script will position the icons in the appropriate order at the precise distance from each other. You can use it over and over again to cleanup the picture in case you mess it up (It's easy to do, believe me!). Feel free to customize your scripts to suit your needs. You can also use the menu "File:Export Script" to save you script as a text file.9.) To take advantage of 32 bit icons, you must be using MacOS 8.5 or higher.BUGSAlthough IconMacher can now properly handle larger pictures, it sometimes can be finicky.Try allocating more memory to IconMacher. THE DIRTAlthough IconMacher is freeware, it is still the property of Purple E Software. If you would like to include it on your site or CD-ROM, please be sure to include this README file unaltered with it. If you would like to make mention of IconMacher when you use it for products, shareware, or freeware, we'd sure appreciate it.VERSION INFO1.0(8/20/99)¥ Initial Release 1.0.1 (8/21/99)¥ Fixed window size problem where buttons would disappear if loaded PICT was too small.¥ Cosmetic change - added RB Logo1.2(8/23/99)¥ Fixed Memory Problem -  Attempting to generate multiple folders of the same icons no longer causes crash¥ Fixed Memory Problem - Large size PICT files can now be iconized without crashing. We have successfully iconzied a 1600x1200 PICT file, although the memory was resized to a very large amount.¥ Added Beep Switch¥ Added Auto Repositioning¥ Fixed Nil Object error when canceling a file selection1.2.1(8/26/99)¥ Improved Applescript Export to make the script more portable1.4(8/28/99)¥ 32 bit icon support added.¥ "Close" menu added¥ Growing memory problem further reduced.¥ Further tweaked the Applescript Export feature¥ Added Easter Egg. Can you find it?Unlisted version numbers are internal releases only.Special Thanks To:Geoff Perlmann, Andrew Barry, James Sentman, Matt Neuberg, Thomas Templemann, Michio Ono, Osamu Shigematsu, and especially Lisa and Meche.Questions, Comments, or Complaints?Email:<ejt@norcom2000.com>Web:http://www.norcom2000.com/users/ejt/purplee.html