Alessandro Levi MontalciniC.so Re Umberto 1010121 TorinoItalymailto:alm@montalcini.commailto:alm@kagi.comhttp://www.montalcini.comshareware registrations at http://order.kagi.com/?67Icon Archiver 4.0 info - November 1998• The Icon Archiver is an extremely powerful database specifically designed for easy icon storage and retrieval. It can quickly scan whole disks or folders and grab all the icons they contain, including those you won’t ever see in the Finder and all icon archives created by other icon utilities. It can easily export them in most graphics formats, including the ones you need for your web pages. Drag & Drop is fully supported, so you can create or stick custom icons by simply dragging them around. All icons are compressed on the fly to save memory and disk space, and archives can contain a very large number of icons (unlike all other icon  utilities which are limited to a few hundreds). Advanced features include removing duplicate icons, sorting them by shape, filtering them by size or color depth, and viewing them in many different ways. The Archiver includes native PowerPC code and its icon handling routines are highly optimized for maximum speed.•  The Icon Dearchiver is a small drag&drop utility that converts an Icon Archiver archive into one or more folders full of custom icons. You can easily do the same thing with the Icon Archiver, but the Dearchiver requires no registration and can be freely distributed along with your icon collections. For example, you don’t need my permission to include the Dearchiver with an icon archive that you wish to distribute over the Net (you don’t even have to be a registered user to distribute the Dearchiver, so go ahead and do it!). The Dearchiver takes less than 70K on disk, or about 35K if you compress it, which means it won’t blow up the size of your distribution files.•  Icon Rescue is a freeware utility that extracts all icons from Icon 7 and Zonkers! collections. It is available on my web and ftp sites.• In the unlikely event that the Archiver crashes when you launch it, try to open it again while holding down the Option or Control keys. This lets you disable some of its advanced features that may be conflicting with your system configuration.• Full documentation is available inside the application.