 IntroductionIconographer est un éditeur d'icones. Il vous permet de changer les icones de fichiers ou de dossiers, mais aussi d'éditer les icones contenues dans les ressources d'applications. Iconographer a ete crée pour editers les icones de plusieurs platformes. Ils inclu classique Mac OS (seulement les icones 8-bit), Mac OS 8.5+ (icones 32-bit avec des masques 8-bit), Mac OS X (icones 128 x 128 dans des fichiers .icns), Windows et Windows XP (fichiers .ico), et Mac OS X Server (icones 48 x 48 dans des fichiers .tiff).Due to its flexibility, Iconographer is useful to both beginners and advanced users. It can be used for a wide range of tasks, ranging from simply creating some customized folder icons to editing complex resource files for an application to converting icons between platforms.RequirementsVersion Carbon:Mac OS X 10.0 ou plusUn Power MacintoshVersion Classique:Système 7.5.3 ou plusApparence Manager (fourni avec MacOS 8.0 et suivants)Un Power MacintoshUtilisationIconographer fonctionne en suivant toutes les recommandations d'interface de MacOS. Si vous avez déjà utilisé une application de dessin, vous connaissez déjà le mode de fonctionnement d'Iconographer.Pour plus de détails sur le fonctionnement d'Iconographer, utilisez l'aide en-ligne. Elle est accessible par le menu "Aide" dans l'application (lisez les instructions ci-dessous pour activer cette possibilité), ou simplement en double-cliquant sur l'alias "Aide" dans le dossier de l'application.Informations SharewareIconographer est un shareware : il n'est PAS gratuit. Si vous utilisez Iconographer, vous devez payer les 15 $ d'enregistrement.Les enregistrements pour Iconographer sont gérés par le service Kagi, de Kee Nethery. En plus de plusieurs devises en monnaie et les chèques américains, Kagi accepte les enregistrements par cartes de crédit via courrier ou e-mail (dans ce cas votre numéro de carte est crypté). Pour les organisations, il est également possible d'obtenir une facture ou des licences de groupe.Pour enregistrer votre version d'Iconographer, merci d'utiliser l'application "Enregistrement" dans le dossier de l'application, ou de visiter le http://order.kagi.com/?QEJ. Vous recevrez un code d'enregistrement de Kagi, vous l'entrerez dans l'application grâce à l'option présente dans le Menu Pomme, et votre version sera enregistrée.Version History2.2 October 18, 2001 - Support for loading and editing of Windows XP icons - Support for editing of icons contained in .rsrc files - Generate Mask and Complete Icon commands - Expand/Contract Selection command - Speed optimizations and cosmetic improvements under Mac OS X - Other bug fixes and tweaks2.1 August 31, 2001 - Iconographer is now Carbonized and runs natively on Mac OS X - The Mac OS X icon format (.icns) files is now fully supported - Improved icon format conversion - Redone colors palette - Live window dragging (only under Mac OS X) and window dragging - The usual miscellaneous bug fixes and interface tweaks2.0.2 March 26, 2001 - Fixed sporadic crash at startup - Clicking once with the marquee and lasso tools removes the current selection - Icon browser improvements - File saving improvements - Many other bug fixes2.0.1 December 22, 2000 - "Open Recent" command for access to the five last used files - Proxy icon support under Mac OS 8.5 and above - Inclusion of Photoshop Actions to ease use as an external editor - Fixed bugs in "Icon Info" window - Works again under Mac OS 8.1 and older - Many other bug fixes and usability tweaks.2.0: September 14, 2000  - Support for editing Mac OS X icons (128 x 128 size, .icns files)  - Completely revamped user interface featuring flexible floating palettes  - Support for an external editor  - Most settings (current color, tool, pattern, etc.) are remembered when re-launching Iconographer.  - Many bug fixes and usability improvements. 1.1.1: February 15, 2000 - Icon browser usability and integration improvements. - Fixed problem with window activation. 1.1: February 9, 2000  -Added floating colors palette. - Revamped icon browser. - Anti-aliasing support. - Windows menu. - Improved Windows icon support (standard 8-bit palette, 48 x 48 import and export). - All three open commands have been combined into one. - Many bug fixes and usability tweaks.1.0.2: September 17, 1999 - Fixed a crash with the move tool. - Fixed cosmetic issues with pre-Mac OS 8.5 systems.1.0.1: September 15, 1999 - Fixed a crash with the text tool.1.0: September 14, 1999- Initial release