Using AppleScript to Integrate clip2icns and Adobe¨ Photoshop¨by Mihai Parparitapart of the clip2icns packagemihai@mscape.comhttp://www.mscape.com/IntroductionThis AppleScript/Photoshop Actionset  is designed to help those you who use Photoshop for your graphics work. It takes a layer and inserts its contents (complete with transparency data) into the file of your choice with the ID of your choice.InstallationYou must first import the action set into the Photoshop Actions palette. First you must show you Actions palette, if it is not already on the screen. To do this select Show Actions from the Windows menu. Then click on the little triangle in the top right corner of the palette. From the menu that shows up, select Load Actions.... Locate the actions file (it's in the AppleScript folder, which is in the Goodies folder within your clip2icns folder). You should have a new folder in your actions palette, clip2icns set. If necessary, click on the disclosure triangle to the right of the folder in order to open it. Within the folder you should see two actions called clipboard to icon and current layer to icon.In addition, you should place the Export To Icon script (or an alias of it) into the Apple menu (or your script menu if you use an extension such as OSA Menu). Finally, if you want to use the integration to its full extent, you'll also need Jon's Commands, a set of scripting additions. They are available from: http://www.seanet.com/~jonpugh/.UsageUsage of this script is rather simple. Once you have created your icon, make sure that all of its contents are within a single layer. Select that layer (if it isn't already selected) in the Layers palette. Then simply run the Export to Icon script. If it is the first that you are doing so, you will be presented with a dialog allowing you to choose the file you wish to insert into. If all goes well, you should end up with clip2icns open, and have the usual insertion dialog present. From there you can choose the insertion ID, click Insert and then Close when you're done.If you wish to change the file that the icons are inserted to, there are two ways of doing this. One is to drag a new file onto the script's icon. Another would be to hold down option when selecting the menu command. This presents you with a standard open dialog, again allowing you to select a new target file. This method only works if you have installed Jon's Commands, mentioned above.