Iconographers of the world unite!As Eric Raymond has said, "Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch." When Mac OS 8.5 was released almost a year ago, Apple provided no way to create new icons in the format which supported 32-bit images with 8-bit masks. Although there were many initial attempts at creating tools to allow the editing of these new icons (including clip2icns, another product of ours), none of these kuldges provided a complete method of editing them. To fill in this gap, I decided to create a full-featured icon editor. Twenty-thousand lines of code and many hundreds of hours later, I am pleased to annouce Iconographer.FeaturesOne of the testers commented that if I'd worked on Iconographer for a bit more, I'd end up with a version of Photoshop that was restricted to a 32 by 32 pixel canvas. Although this might be somehwat of an exagerration, it is true that Iconographer does not simply include the standard drawing tools that are in your run-of-the-mill icon editor. If the additive and subtractive selections aren't enough for you, perhaps the hue and saturation controls will provide the control you need. And if you ever make a mistake, the multiple undos will let you take the icon all the way back to the blank canvas. And of course the importing and exporting of Windows icons (.ico format) shouldn't be forgtten, along with the handy icon browser which allows you to quickly edit files containing several icon resources.However, as any self-respecting developer really ought to know, cramming in too many features can lead to bloat-ware. In Iconographer's case, I've tried to arrage the UI behing the Appearance Manager-savvy look in such a way that you can immediately get started, and only later, if necessary, discover the additional goodies. And to make sure that there is no confusion, an extensive balloon help and HTML-based help system is provided.Pricing and AvailabilityAlthough Iconographer may be a labor of love, due to the massive amount of time and energy spent on it a small shareware fee is requested. This means that if you use it for more than a few icons, a $15 fee is requested. In addition, there is a discount (which lowers the price to $5) for users of clip2icns. Payments are handled by Kagi, a third party firm specializing in this.Iconographer may be downloaded from the product page at Mscape Software:http://www.mscape.com/products/iconographer.htmlRequirements- A Power Macintosh- System 7.5.3 or above- Appearance Manager (included with Mac OS 8.0 and above)About Mscape SoftwareMscape Software was founded in 1998 to provide tools which seemed to be lacking in the Mac OS community. The first product, clip2cicn, was made when the author needed a way to easily create Kaleidoscope 2.0 schemes, and has now become an indispensable tool in every schemer's arsenal. clip2icns, released in October 1998 was the first tool which allowed the creation (indirectly, the actual graphics had to be drawn in a different program) of the new Mac OS 8.5 32-bit icons. A companion product, Glypher, which allowed the instantaneous creation of folder icons, was released shortly after.